zhenshui
a world when people know they are in fiction world
I wrote a novel with 220k words(in chinese) to build a world which some people in there know they are in a novel.
It's not unusual, you know, like the "breaks the fourth wall","meta-narrative" stuff. many fictions did that.
only but I dug a little deeper.
I start to think "how it works in our reality",if someone among us knows(or guess/assume etc) this is a fiction world,what will he/she do?
compare to reality,it's bascily has 3 type of “high quality” reactions:
1,trying to escape,back to reality——that's what most religious believers do,u know,like the whole "ascending to heaven through the Last Judgment" thing.or EVA like,or the so called "raise the dimension" thing.
2,trying to refuse god(aka narrator\writer etc)come over the world,find ways to exile god. which is stop me from continuing to write this novel.
3,bargaining,to make use of god,that's most chinese do:since I can't escape,can't completely exile you,and neither can I obey u,so let's do some cooperation.
I thought a while here,fairly speaking,seems praying is another type of bargaining sometimes.if my characters make me satisfied,I do like to reward him/her.
inference:the real belivers shouldn't pray for anything specific,they should only accept everything what god descends.
(what I called "low quality" reactions including numbness, disregard, suicide, falling into a crisis of nihilism, or anyother non-constructive and negative reactions)
anyway,since I'm chinese,I chose to think option 2,which is how I can exile the god.
it's not easy you know,since narrator/author is the god himself,how can I imagine my characters exile me myself?how can they do that?
so I wrote a novel with 220k words in chinese(did I metioned before?) to analyse,deduce it,and I got the answer!
to emphasize:it's not in the easy ways,like you set up some specific settings to allow your characters against you,that's not the good way I satisfied.
what I'm trying to do is to find out,in reality,philosophically speaking,if our world is totally a fiction,how to exile the narrator,and why it's possible or workable from philosophy perspective
in the very beginning,when this journey begins,I didn't know what the answer is,and when the answer emerges itself,it seems——I have to say——a kind of cliché.it's new,but cliché,more like reinterpreting some old concept with some new perspective.
but I think it's still has some ground-breaking work,and somehow——I don't know——interesting.It's a kind of like establishing some philosophical theoretical framework.but in a literary way.
I finished my novel in 2025 late August,and I still feel weird,scary and crazy untill now——in some random times.because It's literally answers everyting,interprets everything,it can answer anything!(adding an "almost" here to show some strictness maybe?)
like some philosophical problems are hard to answer,you need to go deep into those classic works,to understand them,and trying very hard(always fail),using some hilosophical terms to make your statement reasonable and clearly.
but with my novel,no,I can answer them with some simple,easy-understanding sentences.
and I do found some typical questions here in /lit/ to answer with my novel,to show you how it's possible.
question 1.
>>25271562
>If Solipsism is true, why can't I (the solipsist) fly? It really makes no sense.
my character asked exactly the same question.in chapter 29,she just wake up from a hypnotherapy(make you dream to cure some mental disease) and asks the doctor:"why I can fly in my lucid dream,but can't fly here?"
the simple answer is:it's not your dream.so you don't control everything.
but solipsists would argue:"isn't the whole world my dream?"
-yes,but first you need to wake up in your dream to transfer this dream to your dream,like from a normal dream into a lucid dream.
it's more like the difference between "believe" and "know",belive is not enough,you can never transfer your "belief" to "knowing".there is a eternal gap.
but how?for example:my character thinks in the novel,but the novel readers clearly know he/she is not the real thinker,the real thinker is me,the author.(quote from chapter 43)
so when the character in my novel knows he/she doesn't exist,it's all me,then he/she can fly in anyway he/she want.
QED

I'll talk about my novel more tomorrow if things go well.

>>25272203
>I don't understand why God is necessary for objective morality
>Unless people mean God = objective reality. Which we already have.
>reality is objective > reality contains all things, which includes minds > minds share an objective reality AKA God > objective morality exists and can be deduced on a particular situation basis.
>>25264294
>Consciousness is not separate from the physical world -- our "soul" is of the same nature as our body and any other phenomenon of the world.
>https://www.noemamag.com/there-is-no-hard-problem-of-consciousness/
ok the last one is knotty ,I read the whole article,he do make some point and consistent with my novel,I need using the paragraph-by-paragraph annotation style.
let's do it one by one.
I put the novel on https://github.com/feiji90/dilingrencheng_zhushi

本作和SCP里的元叙事有何区别？SCP里的元叙事最大的问题是：缺乏建设性行为。即只将其当成一个客观事实并幻想与其相关的各种现象，但缺乏对这一现象的积极应对。
meta-narrative元叙事 
I'm a procrastinator
again,220k chinese characters
https://scp-wiki-cn.wikidot.com/narrativistics-and-you
实体来到了上层叙事，攻击了位于我们之上的作者，也就是他的创造者。这种说法是不对的。这个异常肯定想攻击他的作者，这点我能肯定，但之后更有可能发生的事情其实是：作者实体创作了一位代理自己的伪作者，把他扔到下层去，让他代替自己挨揍。这样，作者就可以把3812写进-2层，再把代理作者写进-1层。实体成功扬升，达成目标，而这一切都在作者的掌控之下。

那么，归根结底，这件事完全取决于作者本人，叙事存在根本没有展现出自我意志，别管他们感不感觉得到自己的意愿。角色所能拥有的意愿，必须是作者想要给予他们的意愿。意愿由作者传递给造物，而作者的意愿又来自更上一层的作者，如此就构成了一条逻辑链。

在多元宇宙里面，唯独作者的想法是有意义的。确实啊，你们可能已经发现了，大家的日常生活里面就有很多不连贯的地方。今天休谟指数还是种可靠的衡量体系，但明天就不行了。怎么回事呢？形而上科学部的人有不同意见。一些人报告说是某种基本力被完全替代后的作用；另一些人则说他们发现了两种SCP-3125，一种是致命模因复合体，另一种神他妈居然是只海星。哎呀，全怪在不靠谱的作者头上不就行了嘛。作者可以搅乱你们的叙事连续性，也可以引入一些自相矛盾的规则。作者完全做得到。叙事一定会顺应作者的要求。

但也别对作者太苛刻哦，毕竟他们也是按照其他作者的意愿行事的。其他作者也一样，其他作者上面的其他作者也一样。是诚无穷匮也。

没错，这说明，任何存在都不具备自由意志和行动主体性，我们也一样。我们仅仅是链条上的一段，是万千创意世界中一段确定的循环，而其中的作者数量很可能是无尽的。一旦媒介发生波动，我们就会瞬间烟消云散。